# Introduction

Today, we utilize web applications for practically all of our daily duties, including ordering food, checking our emails, booking flights, and even reading the news. Web applications that are currently being used number in the millions. Due to this increase in the number of web applications, there is a higher likelihood of critical vulnerabilities in them. In H1-2020, there is a growth in cyber attacks on web apps of more than 800%. [1]. Therefore, in order to find a solution to this problem by developing secure web applications, there is a need to understand the common weaknesses in web applications.

Our project aims to facilitate this understanding by providing a playground for web developers and security enthusiasts to upskill their security skills in a legal environment. This project is based around Modern web application development frameworks because technologies used in the industry are always developing and so is the security of web applications. The vulnerabilities that were common in the web application a few years ago, are now mitigated by modern web application development frameworks. Still, flaws in application logic and bad security practices by developers can lead to security risks that can be fatal to the organization.

The most common attacks to real-world web applications according to OWASP Top Ten includes Injection attacks such as SQL Injection,  Cross-Site Scripting and OS command injection, Request forgery attacks like Server-side Request Forgery and Cross-site Request Forgery, and security risks like Broken Access Control and Authentication failures. SQL Injection is an attack where an attacker submits a malicious payload as the user input which modifies the SQL query that the backend server sends to the database. This may result in the attacker being able to access or modify confidential information stored on the database. Cross-site Scripting is where an attacker can insert harmful code into a website that is subsequently executed by unwary visitors who access the page and may result in the compromise of the user's private data. OS command injection is an attack where the attacker exploits the web application to execute arbitrary OS commands on the server which can result in complete compromise of the server and other backend utilities connected to the server. A Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) is a vulnerability which allows an attacker to trick the backend of the web application to make requests to an unintended server. SSRF assaults are frequently used by criminals to attack internal systems that are protected by firewalls and inaccessible from the outside network. A security technique known as an access control mechanism establishes who has access to resources like files, folders, and websites. Unauthorized users may access the resource when access control is compromised. This may occur if the access control procedures are not followed correctly or if the system has a vulnerability that can be exploited. All of these common vulnerabilities discussed above can cause huge reputation and financial losses to the organization/company.

To avoid such vulnerabilities, developers and administrators of online applications on the Internet should stick to clearly defined and best security procedures. In this project, we have worked on building an E-commerce themed web application which is infused with vulnerabilities discussed above. The vulnerabilities induced in the project arise from common mistakes or assumptions that the developers make during development. Users can walk through exploiting these vulnerabilities to identify their root cause and figure out ways that can be employed to mitigate them.
